US presidential candidates carela Harris
and Donald Trump have attended a
Memorial in New York on the 23rd
anniversary of the 911 attacks it was a
much more somber Affair after last
night's head-to-head TV debate ahead of
the election in November there were
insults and a stream of personal attacks
and they sparred on issues including
abortion foreign policy and the economy
both sides claim victory after the
90-minute debate watched by more than 57
million people from Philadelphia is our
North America editor Sarah
Smith at a September the 11th memorial
service it was Donald Trump who
orchestrated a cordial greeting this
morning quite a contrast no camela
Harris striding across the stage last
night to demand a handshake from a
reluctant Mr Trump see you have fun
thank you it was contentious and
ill-tempered with both candidates in
attack mode stop with the continuous
lying about this stuff what she says is
an absolute lie yet again I said it at
the beginning of this debate you're
going to hear a bunch of Lies coming
from this fell excuse me I have to
respond another lie this former
prosecutor had come prepared to push his
buttons people start leaving his rallies
early out of exhaustion and boredom
provoking an unsubstantiated rant about
illegal migrants in Ohio in Springfield
they're eating the dogs the people that
came in they're eating the cats they're
eating they're eating the pets of the
people that live there just watch both
their faces he is clearly bristling with
barely contained frustration she's
enjoying mocking and laughing at him but
deadly serious when attacking him on
abortion rights the government and
Donald Trump certainly should not be
telling a woman what to do with her body
I have Miss Harris said she would try to
reinstate the right to have an abortion
but her vice presidential pick says
abortion in the ninth month is
absolutely fine he also says EX
execution after birth it's an execution
no a claim so outrageously untrue one of
the debate moderators had to step in
there is no state in this country where
it is legal to kill a baby after it's
born a fluster Donald Trump relied
repeatedly on attacking the current
administration's record on immigration
why are we allowing these millions of
people to come through on the southern
border how come she's not doing it
Democrats here say they are very happy
with how KLA Harris managed to keep
Donald Trump on the defensive going
after him hard getting under his skin
and leaving him looking angry and
rattled so flustered he made an
unexpected personal appearance to try
and spin his own verdict I say the truth
if I lose votes or gain votes I don't
care but uh this was my best debate I
thought it was very good I thought she
was very weak on foreign policy she was
very weak On the
Border at the same time a confident
Harris campaign immediately suggested a
second debate next month she wants it
because she lost do you have an answer
well I don't know I have to think about
it but if you won the debate I sort of
think maybe I shouldn't do it why should
I do another debate and we will win post
debate celebrations in the Harris Camp
were capped by a huge celebrity
endorsement as Taylor Swift declared
after watching that event she'll be
voting for kamla
[Applause]
Harris Sarah Smith BBC News
Philadelphia well as you saw there were
plenty of claims and counter claims our
analysis editor rosak kins was watching
the debate from Washington and has been
factchecking some of them Donald Trump
says the TV debate was rigged his
supporters are saying it was three
against one because the two moderators
fat checked him more than kamla Harris
but he said much more that wasn't true
immigrants in the City of Springfield
Ohio are eating the dogs eating the cats
they're eating the pets of the people
that live there the moderators
highlighted that ABC had contacted a
city official who had debunked this
claim and BBC verifier has also been
told there's no credible reports or
specific claims of pets being harmed
injured or abused by individuals within
the Immigrant community in total Trump
was fact checked or clarified five times
KLA Harris not once despite making such
claims as Donald Trump left us the worst
unemployment since the Great depression
that's not true in 2021 When Donald
Trump left Office Unemployment was at
6.4% in 2009 it was 10% on abortion
Harris said if Donald Trump were to be
reelected he will sign a National
Abortion B that's misleading Donald
Trump says he'll leave the states to
decide their positions and if these
statements went unchecked so did many
others by Donald Trump on immigration he
claimed we have millions of people
pouring into our country from prisons
and jails from mental institutions and
insane asylums this is not supported by
available evidence during one attack on
Biden and Harris Trump claimed we have
inflation like very few people have ever
seen before probably the worst in our
nation's history that's not true
inflation in the US peaked at 99.1% in
June 2022 and it's been above 9% at
various points in US history so claims
went unchecked others were challenged
and this was different to the Biden
Trump debate in June when CNN decided
not to fact check during the debate
though it did
afterwards this is another illustration
of how ever since Trump ran in 2016 the
media has wrestled with how to respond
to the volume of false and misleading
claims that he
makes in this debate both candidates
made statements that require correction
but Trump did so more than Harris it's
not biased or rigged to point this out
rakins there well our North America
editor Sarah Smith joins us now the
polls have certainly shifted since
President Biden decided not to run again
just how tight is this election
looking well the poll suggests that it
is still absolutely neck and neck so
although CA Harris today is feeling
confident after putting in a strong
performance that does not mean she is
assured a victory in November because
consider this there are only 8 weeks to
go until the election but it was just 8
weeks ago that the last presidential
election saw Joe Biden's candidacy
destroyed clearly a lot can happen in
that short period of time last night did
give voters a chance to see both of
these candidates head-to-head for the
first time they could compare
temperament and demeanor but they were a
bit short changed on policy detail and
as we keep saying because it's true this
election will be decided by very slim
majorities in just a very small number
of those key swing States Sarah Smith
our North America editor thank you and
you can hear plenty more on that debate
on the latest americast podcast it is
available now on BBC sounds